# Prosper Loan Data Exploration
## by Joseph Edet


## Dataset

The dataset is loan data from Propser Funding LLC - A peer-to-peer online credit marketplace. It contains information about 113,937 loans and 81 columns including borrower income, borrower interest rate, borrower APR, a calculated Prosper score, date of loan listing, debt-to-income ratio of borrower among others. The dataset can be found here https://www.google.com/url?q=https://s3.amazonaws.com/udacity-hosted-downloads/ud651/prosperLoanData.csv&sa=D&ust=1554484977406000
The main purpose of this project is to find out what factors might influence the APR of a borrower.
But what is APR. APR stands for Annual Percentage Rate. It differs from interest rate. According to [Investopedia](https://www.investopedia.com/terms/a/apr.asp), it is  the yearly interest generated by a sum that's charged to borrowers or paid to investors. APR is expressed as a percentage that represents the actual yearly cost of funds over the term of a loan or income earned on an investment. This includes any fees or additional costs associated with the transaction but does not take compounding into account.


## Summary of Findings

From my analysis I discovered a few factors that influenced APR. 
- Income Range, Loan Amount and Prosper Score negatively correlates with APR. Borrowers who earn low had higher rates, also I discovered that higher principal loans meant lower values for APR which was kind of a surprise to me. Then Prosper Score had showed the strongest negative correlation with APR. Propser Score is a calculation of risk, lower Prosper Score means higher risk and borrowers with lower Prosper scores were generally charged with higher rates.
- I discovered being unemployed people and having a high debt-to-income ratio means you could be charged more for taking out a loan from Prosper, and I thought the loan term will have an influence on the APR but that was not the case.
- Lastly, having a sort of collateral like a home correlates with lower APR values. Quite interestingly though, I found out the effect of being a home owner or not if you earn low, does not greatly influence APR. The rates are still high either way.  


## Key Insights for Presentation

For the presentation, the first thing I did was present a histogram to show the distribution of BorrowerAPR which is my main variable of interest. The distribution is mutimodal with a few peaks, but the highest peaks were between 0.1 and 0.2. Then I represent the relationship between BorrowerAPR and Prosper Score which I discovered was had the strongest correlation with my main variable of interest in a violinplot. Prosper Score is strongly negatively correlated with Borrower APR which means borrowers with higher Prosper Score tend to receive lower APRs. Finally, I presented a multivariate plot of BorrowerAPR vs IncomeRange by IsBorrowerHomeowner to depict how earning a high income and a home makes it more likely to receive lower APR when taking out a loan.